Assignment - Interface

1. What is an interface in Java?
Ans: An interface in Java is a mechanism that is used to achieve complete abstraction. It is basically a kind of class that contains only constants and abstract methods.

2. Which modifiers are allowed for methods in an Interface?Explain with an example
Ans: Only abstract and public modifiers are allowed for methods in interfaces.

3. What is the use of interface in Java?
Ans: There are many reasons to use interfaces in java. They are as follows:
a. An interface is used to achieve full abstraction.
b. Using interfaces is the best way to expose our project’s API to some other project.
c. Programmers use interfaces to customise features of software differently for different objects.
d. By using interface, we can achieve the functionality of multiple inheritance.

4. What is the difference between abstract class and interface in Java?
Ans: Definition: An abstract class is a class that cannot be instantiated and can contain both abstract and non-abstract methods. An  interface, on the other hand, is a contract that specifies a set of methods that a class must implement.

Method implementation: In an abstract class, some methods can be implemented, while others are left abstract, meaning that they have no implementation and must be overridden by concrete subclasses. In contrast, all methods in an interface are by default abstract and must be implemented by any class that implements the interface.

Inheritance: A class can inherit from only one abstract class, but it can implement multiple interfaces. This is because an abstract class represents a type of object, while an interface represents a set of behaviors.

Access modifiers: Abstract classes can have access modifiers such as public, protected, and private for their methods and properties, while interfaces can only have public access.

Variables: An abstract class can have member variables, while an interface cannot.

In summary, abstract classes are used to provide a base class for concrete subclasses to inherit from, while interfaces are used to define a set of methods that a class must implement. Abstract classes can have implemented and abstract methods, while interfaces can only have abstract methods. Classes can inherit from only one abstract class, but can implement multiple interfaces.
